Blog: Kubernetes v1.26: GA Support for Kubelet Credential Providers (#37647)
kubernetes/website: content/en/blog/_posts/2022-11-28-kubelet-credential-providers/index.md

---
layout: blog
title: 'Kubernetes v1.26: GA Support for Kubelet Credential Providers'

> date: 2022-11-28

Reviewer: ```sugestion
date: 2022-12-22
```
Please update the path `content/en/blog/_posts/2022-11-28-kubelet-credential-providers/index.md` to match.

slug: kubelet-credential-providers
---

**Authors:** Andrew Sy Kim (Google), Dixita Narang (Google)

> Kubernetes v1.26 introduced generally available (GA) support for _kubelet credential

Reviewer 2: Do we want to link the docs here? i.e. /docs/tasks/kubelet-credential-provider/kubelet-credential-provider/
```suggestion
Kubernetes v1.26 introduced generally available (GA) support for _kubelet credential
```

provider plugins_, offering an extensible plugin framework to dynamically fetch credentials
for any container image registry.

## Background

Kubernetes supports the ability to dynamically fetch credentials for a container registry service.
Prior to Kubernetes v1.20, this capability was compiled into the kubelet and only available for
Amazon Elastic Container Registry, Azure Container Registry, and Google Cloud Container Registry.

{{< figure src="kubelet-credential-providers-in-tree.png" caption="Figure 1: Kubelet built-in credential provider support for Amazon Elastic Container Registry, Azure Container Registry, and Google Cloud Container Registry." >}}

Kubernetes v1.20 introduced alpha support for kubelet credential providers plugins,

> which provide a mechanism for the kubelet to dynamically authenticate and pull images

Reviewer 2: Spelling nit
```suggestion
which provides a mechanism for the kubelet to dynamically authenticate and pull images
```

for arbitrary container registries - whether these are public registries, managed services,
or even a self-hosted registry.
In Kubernetes v1.26, this feature is now GA

{{< figure src="kubelet-credential-providers-plugin.png" caption="Figure 2: Kubelet credential provider overview" >}}

## Why is it important?

Prior to Kubernetes v1.20,  if you wanted to dynamically fetch credentials for image registries
other than ACR (Azure Container Registry), ECR (Elastic Container Registry), or GCR
(Google Container Registry), you needed to modify the kubelet code.
The new plugin mechanism can be used in any cluster, and lets you authenticate to new registries without
any changes to Kubernetes itself. Any cloud provider or vendor can publish a plugin that lets you authenticate with their image registry.

> ## How it Works

Reviewer: (nit)
```suggestion
## How it works
```

> The kubelet and the credential provider plugin binary communicate through stdio (stdin, stdout, and stderr) by sending and receiving

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure if you're referring to the same thing with the terms exec plugin & credential provider plugin binary. In the docs, the exec plugin term is used currently.
```suggestion
The kubelet and the exec plugin communicate through stdio (stdin, stdout, and stderr) by sending and receiving
```

json-serialized api-versioned types. If the exec plugin is enabled and the kubelet requires authentication information for an image

> that matches against a plugin, the kubelet will exec the plugin binary, passing the `CredentialProviderRequest` API via stdin. Then

Reviewer 2: Since it is a verb, I think it should be written completely.
```suggestion
that matches against a plugin, the kubelet will execute the plugin binary, passing the `CredentialProviderRequest` API via stdin. Then
```

the exec plugin communicates with the container registry to dynamically fetch the credentials and returns the credentials in an
encoded response of the `CredentialProviderResponse` API to the kubelet via stdout.

{{< figure src="kubelet-credential-providers-how-it-works.png" caption="Figure 3: Kubelet credential provider plugin flow" >}}

> On receiving credentials from the Kubelet, the plugin can also indicate how long credentials can be cached for, to prevent unecessary

Reviewer 2: Capitalization of kubelet not required.
```suggestion
On receiving credentials from the kubelet, the plugin can also indicate how long credentials can be cached for, to prevent unnecessary
```

> execution of the plugin by the Kubelet for subsequent image pull requests to the same registry. In cases where the cache duration

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
execution of the plugin by the kubelet for subsequent image pull requests to the same registry. In cases where the cache duration
```

is not specified by the plugin, a default cache duration can be specified by the kubelet (more details below).

```json
{
  "apiVersion": "kubelet.k8s.io/v1",
  "kind": "CredentialProviderResponse",
  "auth": {
    "cacheDuration": "6h",
    "private-registry.io/my-app": {
      "username": "“user”",
      "password": "“token12345”"
    }
  }
}
```

In addition, the plugin can specify the scope in which cached credentials are valid for. This is specified through the `cacheKeyType` field
in `CredentialProviderResponse`. When the value is `Image`, the kubelet will only use cached credentials for future image pulls that exactly

> match the image of the first request. When the value is `Registry`, the kubelet will use cached credentials for any subsequent image pulls

Reviewer 2: For the Registry value, do we mean to say that the kubelet uses cached credentials for image pulls from the same registry host? Adding the verb originate here could confuse the audience because they might assume that the image-pulling action originates at the registry host end.
```suggestion
match the image of the first request. When the value is `Registry`, the kubelet will use cached credentials for any subsequent image pulls
```

> that originate from the same registry host, but using different paths (e.g. `gcr.io/foo/bar` and `gcr.io/bar/foo` refer to different images

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
from the same registry host, but use different paths (for example, `gcr.io/foo/bar` and `gcr.io/bar/foo` refer to different images
```

> from the same registry). And lastly, when the value is `Global`, the kubelet will use returned credentials for all images that match against

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
from the same registry). 
Lastly, when the value is `Global`, the kubelet will use returned credentials for all images that match against
```

the plugin, including images that can map to different registry hosts (e.g. gcr.io vs k8s.gcr.io). The `cacheKeyType` field is required by plugin
implementations.

```json
{
  "apiVersion": "kubelet.k8s.io/v1",
  "kind": "CredentialProviderResponse",
  "auth": {
    "cacheKeyType": "Registry",
    "private-registry.io/my-app": {

>       "username": "“user”",
>       "password": "“token12345”"

Reviewer: Is this right:
```suggestion
      "username": "exampleuser",
      "password": "token12345"
```

Author: oops, good catch, thank you

    }
  }
}
```

## Using kubelet credential providers

You can configure credential providers by installing the exec plugin(s) into
a local directory accessible by the kubelet on every node. Then you set two command line arguments for the kubelet:
* `--image-credential-provider-config`: the path to the credential provider plugin config file.
* `--image-credential-provider-bin-dir`: the path to the directory where credential provider plugin binaries are located.

The configuration file passed into `--image-credential-provider-config` is read by the kubelet to determine which exec plugins should be invoked for a container image used by a Pod.

> Note that the name of each "provider" must match the name of the binary located in the local directry specified in `--image-credential-provider-bin-dir`, otherwise the Kubelet

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that the name of each _provider_ must match the name of the binary located in the local
directory specified in `--image-credential-provider-bin-dir`, otherwise the kubelet
```
“directry” was a typo, and I made other style fixes

---
layout: blog
title: 'Kubernetes v1.26: GA Support for Kubelet Registry Credential Providers'
date: 2022-11-28
slug: kubelet-credential-providers
---

**Authors:** Andrew Sy Kim (Google), Dixita Narang (Google)

Kubernetes v1.26 introduces GA support for Kubelet Credential Providers,
offering an extensible plugin to dynamically fetch credentials for any container registry service.

## Background

Kubernetes supports the ability to dynamically fetch credentials for a container registry service.
However, prior to Kubernetes v1.20, this capability was built into the Kubelet and only available for
Amazon Elastic Container Registry, Azure Container Registry, and Google Cloud Container Registry.

{{< figure src="kubelet-credential-providers-in-tree.png" alt="Figure 1: Kubelet Built-in Credential Provider Support for Amazon Elastic Container Registry, Azure Container Registry, and Google Cloud Container Registry." >}}

Kubernetes v1.20 introduced alpha support for Kubelet Credential Providers, providing a mechanism for
the Kubelet to dynamically authenticate and pull images for any container registry service.
In Kubernetes v1.26, this feature is now GA.

> {{< figure src="kubelet-credential-providers-plugin.png" alt="Figure 2: Kubelet Credential Provider Overview" >}}

Author: @sftim is there a way to add description text for figures?

Reviewer: See https://gohugo.io/content-management/shortcodes/#figure

There are a few options.

---

**Authors:** Andrew Sy Kim (Google), Dixita Narang (Google)

Kubernetes v1.26 introduces GA support for Kubelet Credential Providers,
offering an extensible plugin framework to dynamically fetch credentials for any container registry service.

## Background

Kubernetes supports the ability to dynamically fetch credentials for a container registry service.
However, prior to Kubernetes v1.20, this capability was compiled into the Kubelet and only available for
Amazon Elastic Container Registry, Azure Container Registry, and Google Cloud Container Registry.

{{< figure src="kubelet-credential-providers-in-tree.png" alt="" >}}

Figure 1: Kubelet Built-in Credential Provider Support for Amazon Elastic Container Registry, Azure Container Registry, and Google Cloud Container Registry.

Kubernetes v1.20 introduced alpha support for Kubelet Credential Providers, providing a mechanism for
the Kubelet to dynamically authenticate and pull images for arbitrary container registry services.
In Kubernetes v1.26, this feature is now GA.

{{< figure src="kubelet-credential-providers-plugin.png" alt="" >}}

Figure 2: Kubelet Credential Provider Overview

## Why is it Important?

> Prior to Kubernetes v1.20, it was required to modify Kubelet to add support to dynamically fetch credentials
> for image registries other than ACR (Azure Container Registry), ECR (Elastic Container Registry), and GCR (Google Container Registry).
> Kubelet Credential Provider provides an extensible plugin mechanism that can be used by any cloud provider
> without adding built-in logic into the kubelet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Prior to Kubernetes v1.20,  if you wanted dynamically fetch credentials for image registries
other than ACR (Azure Container Registry), ECR (Elastic Container Registry), or GCR
(Google Container Registry), you needed to modify the kubelet code.
The new plugin extensible plugin mechanism can be used in any cluster, and lets you set up
a new integration without any changes to Kubernetes itself. Any cloud provider can publish
a plugin that lets you authenticate with their image registry.
```

## How it Works

The Kubelet and plugin communicate through stdio (stdin, stdout, and stderr) by sending and receiving json-serialized api-versioned types.
If the exec plugin is enabled and the Kubelet requires authentication information for an image that matches against a plugin,
the Kubelet will exec the plugin, passing CredentialProviderRequest API via stdin. Then the exec plugin communicates with the
image registry to dynamically fetch the credentials and returns the credentials in an encoded response of the CredentialProviderResponse

> API to the Kubelet via stdout.

Reviewer: (nits)
“kubelet” (all lower case)

`CredentialProviderRequest` and `CredentialProviderResponse` (monospace)

{{< figure src="kubelet-credential-providers-how-it-works.png" alt="" >}}

> Figure 3: Kubelet Credential Provider Plugin Flow

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Figure 3: kubelet credential provider plugin flow
```

> ## Enabling Kubelet Credential Providers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Using kubelet credential providers
```

> In order to enable Kubelet Credential Providers feature, the Kubelet expects two flags to be set:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You configure credential providers for a node by deploying the exec plugin(s) into
a local directory. Then you set two command line arguments for the kubelet:
```

We could make it clear that the kubelet works fine even if the directory is empty, but the config does need to be set.

* `--image-credential-provider-config`: the path to the credential provider plugin config file.
* `--image-credential-provider-bin-dir`: the path to the directory where credential provider plugin binaries are located.

The configuration file passed into `--image-credential-provider-config` is read by the Kubelet to determine which exec plugins should be invoked for a container image used by a Pod.
Below is the configuration used by the Kubernetes project for end-to-end testing.

> {{< figure src="kubelet-credential-providers-enabling.png" alt="" >}}

Reviewer: It'd be nice to have a sample configuration in YAML rather than PNG.

Figure 4: Kubelet Credential Provider setup for GCR-based exec plugin, used for Kubernetes e2e testing

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

You'd usually need to repeat this configuration across all the nodes in your cluster.

```
